# Two-Tier-Client-Server-Application-Development-With-MySQL-andJDBC-

To develop a two-tier Java based client-server application interacting with a MySQL database utilizing JDBC for the connectivity. 

Description: Develop  a  Java-based  GUI  front-end  (client-side) application that will connect to your MySQL server via JDBC. You are to develop a Java application that will allow any client(the end-user) to execute commands against the database. You will create a Java GUI-based application front-end that will accept any MySQL  DDL  or  DML  command,  pass  this  through  a  JDBC  connection  to  the  MySQL  databaseserver,  execute  the  statement  and  return  the  results  to  the  client. Note  that  while  technically  your application  must  be  able  to  handle  any  DDL  or  DML  command,  we  won’t  actually  use  all  of  the commands available in these sublanguages.  For one thing, it would be quite rare to allow a client to create a database or a table within a database.  Note too, that the only DML command that uses the executeQuery()method of JDBC is the Select command, all other DML and DDL commands utilize executeUpdate().Some screen shots of what your Java GUI front-end should look like are shown below.  Basically, this GUI is an extension of the GUI that was developed in the lecture notes and is available on WebCoursesas DisplayQueryResults.java.  Your Java application must give the user the ability to execute any SQL DDL or DML command for which the user has the correct permissions.   Note also, that if the user wishes to change databases in the middle of a session,they must reconnect to the new database. Their user information can remain in the proper window, but you must click the reconnect button to establish a connection to the new database.You will be able to start multiple instances of your Java application and allow different clients to connect simultaneously to  the  MySQL  server,  since the  default  number  of  connectionsis  set  at  151  (see  your  Workbench options file under the networking tab).In addition, a transaction logging operation will occur which keeps a running total of the number of queries and the number of updates that have occurred via the user application.  This is a separate database (i.e., completely different database than any that the user can connect to), that the application will connect, with root user privileges, and update after each user operation completes.  See below for more details on this feature of your application.Once you’ve created your application, you will execute a sequence of DML and DDL commands and illustrate the output from each in your GUIfor two different users.For this project youwill create, in addition to the root user, a client user with limited permissions on the database (see below).  The root  user  is  assumed  to  have  all  permissions  on  the  database,  any  commandthey  issue  will  be executed.The client user will be far more restricted.
